# Contributing

Code contributions to schemdraw are welcome, especially with:

* New circuit elements
* Building non-electrical component libraries (for example, process flow diagrams would be a great addition)
* Adding examples to the documentation gallery

Report bugs and feature requests on the [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/cdelker/schemdraw/issues).
Please include code for an example schematic drawing affected by the bug.

For simple bug fixes, if you're comfortable working a fix and submitting a pull request (PR), please fork the [source code repository](https://github.com/cdelker/schemdraw/) and issue the (PR).
Simple fixes are typically those affecting a few lines in one source file.

For more involved bug fixes, or adding new features and new elements, please open an issue in the [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/cdelker/schemdraw/issues) before submitting a PR.
This allows discussion on the best possible solution.

Make sure to include any new elements in an appropriate location in the test Jupyter notebooks and in the documentation.


## Guidelines

- All contributions will be included under schemdraw's MIT license.
- Schemdraw generally follows PEP 8 code conventions. Please match code style in PRs to the schemdraw style. PRs with superfluous formatting changes, especially where it is difficult to separate the functional from formatting differences, will not be accepted.
- Code, documentation, or issues generated by an LLM, chatbot, or other code generation bot will not be accepted at this time.


## Citing Schemdraw

Are you using schemdraw in digital or printed publication and want to show it off? Great!
Share your work by adding an item in the github [discussion](https://github.com/cdelker/schemdraw/discussions) section.
Once enough examples are collected, links may be added in the documentation.

You do not need to cite schemdraw in your publication unless the publication directly discusses use of schemdraw as a schematic drawing tool.
If you'd like to cite, one way is to refer to the documentation PDF. Using APA style:

    Delker, Collin (2026). Schemdraw Documentation. readthedocs. Retrieved from https://schemdraw.readthedocs.io/_/downloads/en/stable/pdf/


Or a bibtex entry:

    @misc{delker2026schemdraw,
    title={Schemdraw Documentation},
    author={Delker, Collin},
    year={2026},
    publisher={readthedocs},
    url={https://schemdraw.readthedocs.io/_/downloads/en/stable/pdf/}
    }
