docs/elements/connectors.rst, before:

Connectors
==========

.. jupyter-execute::
    :hide-code:

    import schemdraw
    from schemdraw import elements as elm
    schemdraw.use('svg')

All connectors are defined with a default pin spacing of 0.6, matching the default pin spacing of the :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.intcircuits.Ic` class, for easy connection of multiple signals.


Headers
^^^^^^^

A :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.Header` is a generic Header block with any number of rows and columns. It can have round, square, or screw-head connection points.

.. element_list::
    :ncols: 2
    :nolabel:

    Header()
    Header(shownumber=True)
    Header(rows=3, cols=2)
    Header(style='square')
    Header(style='screw')
    Header(pinsleft=['A', 'B', 'C', 'D'])

Header pins are given anchor names `pin1`, `pin2`, etc.    
Pin number labels and anchor names can be ordered left-to-right (`lr`), up-to-down (`ud`), or counterclockwise (`ccw`) like a traditional IC, depending on the `numbering` argument.
The `flip` argument can be set True to put pin 1 at the bottom.

.. jupyter-execute::
    :hide-code:
    
    with schemdraw.Drawing():
        elm.Header(shownumber=True, cols=2, numbering='lr', label="lr")
        elm.Header(at=[3, 0], shownumber=True, cols=2, numbering='ud', label="ud")
        elm.Header(at=[6, 0], shownumber=True, cols=2, numbering='ccw', label="ccw")

A :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.Jumper` element is also defined, as a simple rectangle, for easy placing onto a header.

.. jupyter-execute::
    
    with schemdraw.Drawing():
        J = elm.Header(cols=2, style='square')
        elm.Jumper().at(J.pin3).fill('lightgray')
    

D-Sub Connectors
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Both :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.DB9` and :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.DB25` subminiature connectors are defined, with anchors `pin1` through `pin9` or `pin25`.

.. element_list::
    :nolabel:

    DB9()
    DB9(number=True)
    DB25()


Multiple Lines
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.RightLines` and :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.OrthoLines` elements are useful for connecting multiple pins of an integrated circuit or header all at once. Both need an `at` and `to` location specified, along with the `n` parameter for setting the number of lines to draw. Use RightLines when the Headers are perpindicular to each other.


.. jupyter-execute::
    :emphasize-lines: 7

    with schemdraw.Drawing():
        D1 = elm.Ic(pins=[elm.IcPin(name='A', side='t', slot='1/4'),
                          elm.IcPin(name='B', side='t', slot='2/4'),
                          elm.IcPin(name='C', side='t', slot='3/4'),
                          elm.IcPin(name='D', side='t', slot='4/4')])
        D2 = elm.Header(rows=4).at((5,4))
        elm.RightLines(n=4).at(D2.pin1).to(D1.D).label('RightLines')


OrthoLines draw a z-shaped orthogonal connection. Use OrthoLines when the Headers are parallel but vertically offset.
Use the `xstart` parameter, between 0 and 1, to specify the position where the first OrthoLine turns vertical.

.. jupyter-execute::
    :emphasize-lines: 7

    with schemdraw.Drawing():
        D1 = elm.Ic(pins=[elm.IcPin(name='A', side='r', slot='1/4'),
                          elm.IcPin(name='B', side='r', slot='2/4'),
                          elm.IcPin(name='C', side='r', slot='3/4'),
                          elm.IcPin(name='D', side='r', slot='4/4')])
        D2 = elm.Header(rows=4).at((7, -3))
        elm.OrthoLines(n=4).at(D1.D).to(D2.pin1).label('OrthoLines')


Data Busses
^^^^^^^^^^^

Sometimes, multiple I/O pins to an integrated circuit are lumped together into a data bus.
The connections to a bus can be drawn using the :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.BusConnect` element, which takes `n` the number of data lines and an argument.
:py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.BusLine` is simply a wider line used to extend the full bus to its destination.

BusConnect elements define anchors `start`, `end` on the endpoints of the wide bus line, and `pin1`, `pin2`, etc. for the individual signals.


.. jupyter-execute::
    :emphasize-lines: 3-5

    with schemdraw.Drawing():
        J = elm.Header(rows=6)
        B = elm.BusConnect(n=6).at(J.pin1)
        elm.BusLine().down().at(B.end).length(3)
        B2 = elm.BusConnect(n=6).anchor('start').reverse()
        elm.Header(rows=6).at(B2.pin1).anchor('pin1')



Outlets
^^^^^^^

Power outlets and plugs are drawn using `OutletX` classes, with international styles A through L. Each has anchors
`hot`, `neutral`, and `ground` (if applicable).
The `plug` parameter fills the prongs to indicate a plug versus an outlet.

.. element_list::
    :nolabel:

    OutletA()
    OutletB()
    OutletC()
    OutletD()
    OutletE()
    OutletF()
    OutletG()
    OutletH()
    OutletI()
    OutletJ()
    OutletK()
    OutletL()

Commit message:

Added more D-sub connectors and aliased DB9 to DE9.

docs/elements/connectors.rst, after:

Connectors
==========

.. jupyter-execute::
    :hide-code:

    import schemdraw
    from schemdraw import elements as elm
    schemdraw.use('svg')

All connectors are defined with a default pin spacing of 0.6, matching the default pin spacing of the :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.intcircuits.Ic` class, for easy connection of multiple signals.


Headers
^^^^^^^

A :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.Header` is a generic Header block with any number of rows and columns. It can have round, square, or screw-head connection points.

.. element_list::
    :ncols: 2
    :nolabel:

    Header()
    Header(shownumber=True)
    Header(rows=3, cols=2)
    Header(style='square')
    Header(style='screw')
    Header(pinsleft=['A', 'B', 'C', 'D'])

Header pins are given anchor names `pin1`, `pin2`, etc.    
Pin number labels and anchor names can be ordered left-to-right (`lr`), up-to-down (`ud`), or counterclockwise (`ccw`) like a traditional IC, depending on the `numbering` argument.
The `flip` argument can be set True to put pin 1 at the bottom.

.. jupyter-execute::
    :hide-code:
    
    with schemdraw.Drawing():
        elm.Header(shownumber=True, cols=2, numbering='lr', label="lr")
        elm.Header(at=[3, 0], shownumber=True, cols=2, numbering='ud', label="ud")
        elm.Header(at=[6, 0], shownumber=True, cols=2, numbering='ccw', label="ccw")

A :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.Jumper` element is also defined, as a simple rectangle, for easy placing onto a header.

.. jupyter-execute::
    
    with schemdraw.Drawing():
        J = elm.Header(cols=2, style='square')
        elm.Jumper().at(J.pin3).fill('lightgray')
    

D-Sub Connectors
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

D-subminiature connectors DE9 (aliased to the commonly used name `DB9`), DB25, DA15, DC37, and DD50 are defined with anchors `pin1` through `pinX` where `X` is the number of pins in the connector.
Classes are :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.DE9`, :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.DB25`, :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.DA15`, :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.DC37`, :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.DD50`. 

.. element_list::
    :nolabel:

    DE9()
    DE9(number=True)
    DB25()
    DA15()
    DC37()
    DD50()


Multiple Lines
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.RightLines` and :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.OrthoLines` elements are useful for connecting multiple pins of an integrated circuit or header all at once. Both need an `at` and `to` location specified, along with the `n` parameter for setting the number of lines to draw. Use RightLines when the Headers are perpindicular to each other.


.. jupyter-execute::
    :emphasize-lines: 7

    with schemdraw.Drawing():
        D1 = elm.Ic(pins=[elm.IcPin(name='A', side='t', slot='1/4'),
                          elm.IcPin(name='B', side='t', slot='2/4'),
                          elm.IcPin(name='C', side='t', slot='3/4'),
                          elm.IcPin(name='D', side='t', slot='4/4')])
        D2 = elm.Header(rows=4).at((5,4))
        elm.RightLines(n=4).at(D2.pin1).to(D1.D).label('RightLines')


OrthoLines draw a z-shaped orthogonal connection. Use OrthoLines when the Headers are parallel but vertically offset.
Use the `xstart` parameter, between 0 and 1, to specify the position where the first OrthoLine turns vertical.

.. jupyter-execute::
    :emphasize-lines: 7

    with schemdraw.Drawing():
        D1 = elm.Ic(pins=[elm.IcPin(name='A', side='r', slot='1/4'),
                          elm.IcPin(name='B', side='r', slot='2/4'),
                          elm.IcPin(name='C', side='r', slot='3/4'),
                          elm.IcPin(name='D', side='r', slot='4/4')])
        D2 = elm.Header(rows=4).at((7, -3))
        elm.OrthoLines(n=4).at(D1.D).to(D2.pin1).label('OrthoLines')


Data Busses
^^^^^^^^^^^

Sometimes, multiple I/O pins to an integrated circuit are lumped together into a data bus.
The connections to a bus can be drawn using the :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.BusConnect` element, which takes `n` the number of data lines and an argument.
:py:class:`schemdraw.elements.connectors.BusLine` is simply a wider line used to extend the full bus to its destination.

BusConnect elements define anchors `start`, `end` on the endpoints of the wide bus line, and `pin1`, `pin2`, etc. for the individual signals.


.. jupyter-execute::
    :emphasize-lines: 3-5

    with schemdraw.Drawing():
        J = elm.Header(rows=6)
        B = elm.BusConnect(n=6).at(J.pin1)
        elm.BusLine().down().at(B.end).length(3)
        B2 = elm.BusConnect(n=6).anchor('start').reverse()
        elm.Header(rows=6).at(B2.pin1).anchor('pin1')



Outlets
^^^^^^^

Power outlets and plugs are drawn using `OutletX` classes, with international styles A through L. Each has anchors
`hot`, `neutral`, and `ground` (if applicable).
The `plug` parameter fills the prongs to indicate a plug versus an outlet.

.. element_list::
    :nolabel:

    OutletA()
    OutletB()
    OutletC()
    OutletD()
    OutletE()
    OutletF()
    OutletG()
    OutletH()
    OutletI()
    OutletJ()
    OutletK()
    OutletL()
