docs/usage/customizing.rst, before:

Customizing Elements
====================

.. jupyter-execute::
    :hide-code:

    %config InlineBackend.figure_format = 'svg'
    import schemdraw
    from schemdraw import elements as elm
    from schemdraw import logic
    from schemdraw.segments import *    


Reusing groups of elements
--------------------------

If a set of circuit elements are to be reused multiple times, they can be grouped into a single element.
Create and populate a drawing, but don't call `draw` on it.
Instead, use the Drawing to create a new :py:class:`ElementDrawing`, which converts the drawing into an element instance
to add to other drawings.
    
.. jupyter-execute::

    d1 = schemdraw.Drawing()
    d1.add(elm.Resistor)
    d1.push()
    d1.add(elm.Capacitor, d='down')
    d1.add(elm.Line, d='left')
    d1.pop()

    d2 = schemdraw.Drawing()   # Add a second drawing
    for i in range(3):
        d2.add(elm.ElementDrawing(d1))   # Add the first drawing to it 3 times
    d2.draw()
    
    
.. _customelements:

Defining custom elements
------------------------

All elements are subclasses of :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.Element` or :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.Element2Term`.
For elements consisting of several other already-defined elements (like a relay), :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.compound.ElementCompound` can be used for easy combining of multiple elements.
Subclasses only need to define the `__init__` method in order to add lines, shapes, and text to the new element, all of which are defined using `Segment` classes. New Segments should be appended to the `Element.segments` attribute list.

Coordinates are all defined in element cooridnates, where the element begins
at [0, 0] and is drawn from left to right. The drawing engine will then rotate
and translate the element to its final position. A standard resistor is
1 drawing unit long, and with default lead extension will become 3 units long.


.. autoclass:: schemdraw.segments.Segment

.. autoclass:: schemdraw.segments.SegmentPoly

.. autoclass:: schemdraw.segments.SegmentCircle

.. autoclass:: schemdraw.segments.SegmentArc

.. autoclass:: schemdraw.segments.SegmentArrow

.. autoclass:: schemdraw.segments.SegmentText



The `Element.__init__` method takes arbitrary keyword arguments than can help define the circuit element to draw.
Keyword arguments passed to the Segment instances will override the drawing defaults or kwargs passed in to the `Element.__init__`.

In addition to the list of Segments, named anchors and other parameters should be specified in the `setup` function. 
Anchors should be added to the `Element.anchors` dictionary as name: [x, y] pairs.

The Element instance maintains its own parameters dictionary in `Element.params` that override the default drawing parameters.
Parameters are resolved by a ChainMap of user arguments to the `Element` instance, the `Element.params` attribute, then the `schemdraw.Drawing` parameters.
A common use of setting `Element.params` in the setup function is to change the default position of text labels, for example Transistor elements apply labels on the right side of the element by default, so they add to the setup:

.. code-block::

    self.params['lblloc'] = 'rgt'

The user can still override this label position by creating, for example, `Transistor(lblloc='top')`.


As an example, here's the definition of our favorite element, the resistor:

.. code-block:: python

    class Resistor(Element2Term):
        def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):
            super().__init__(*args, **kwargs)
            self.segments.append(Segment([[0, 0], [0.5*reswidth, resheight],
                                          [1.5*reswidth, -resheight], [2.5*reswidth, resheight],
                                          [3.5*reswidth, -resheight], [4.5*reswidth, resheight],
                                          [5.5*reswidth, -resheight], [6*reswidth, 0]]))


The resistor is made of just one path.
`reswidth` and `resheight` are constants that define the height and width of the resistor (and are referenced by several other elements too).
Browse the source code in the `Schemdraw.elements` module to see the definitions of the other built-in elements.


Flux Capacitor Example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For an example, let's make a flux capacitor circuit element.

Since everyone knows a flux-capacitor has three branches, we should subclass the standard :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.Element` class instead of :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.Element2Term`.
Start by importing the Segments and define the class name and `__init__` function:

.. code-block:: python

    from schemdraw.segments import *

    class FluxCapacitor(Element):
        def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):

We want a dot in the center of our flux capacitor, so start by adding a `SegmentCircle`. The `fclen` and `radius` variables could be pulled from kwargs for the user to adjust, if desired.

.. code-block:: python

            fclen = 0.5
            radius = 0.075
            self.segments.append(SegmentCircle([0, 0], radius))

Next, add the paths as Segment instances, which are drawn as lines. The flux capacitor will have three paths, all extending from the center dot:

.. code-block:: python

            self.segments.append(Segment([[0, 0], [0, -fclen*1.41]]))
            self.segments.append(Segment([[0, 0], [fclen, fclen]]))
            self.segments.append(Segment([[0, 0], [-fclen, fclen]]))
        
        
And at the end of each path is an open circle. Append three more `SegmentCircle` instances.
By specifying `fill=None` the SegmentCircle will always remain unfilled regardless of any `fill` arguments provided to `Drawing` or `FluxCapacitor`.

.. code-block:: python

            self.segments.append(SegmentCircle([0, -fclen*1.41], 0.2, fill=None))
            self.segments.append(SegmentCircle([fclen, fclen], 0.2, fill=None))
            self.segments.append(SegmentCircle([-fclen, fclen], 0.2, fill=None))
    

Finally, we need to define anchor points so that other elements can be connected to the right places.
Here, they're called `p1`, `p2`, and `p3` for lack of better names (what do you call the inputs to a flux capacitor?)
Add these to the `self.anchors` dictionary.

.. code-block:: python

            self.anchors['p1'] = [-fclen, fclen]
            self.anchors['p2'] = [fclen, fclen]
            self.anchors['p3'] = [0, -fclen*1.41]    

Here's the Flux Capacitor class all in one:

.. jupyter-execute::

    class FluxCapacitor(elm.Element):
        def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):
            super().__init__(*args, **kwargs)
            radius = 0.075
            fclen = 0.5
            self.segments.append(SegmentCircle([0, 0], radius))
            self.segments.append(Segment([[0, 0], [0, -fclen*1.41]]))
            self.segments.append(Segment([[0, 0], [fclen, fclen]]))
            self.segments.append(Segment([[0, 0], [-fclen, fclen]]))
            self.segments.append(SegmentCircle([0, -fclen*1.41], 0.2, fill=None))
            self.segments.append(SegmentCircle([fclen, fclen], 0.2, fill=None))
            self.segments.append(SegmentCircle([-fclen, fclen], 0.2, fill=None))
            self.anchors['p1'] = [-fclen, fclen]
            self.anchors['p2'] = [fclen, fclen]
            self.anchors['p3'] = [0, -fclen*1.41]


Try it out:

.. jupyter-execute::

    FluxCapacitor()


Segment objects
---------------

After an element is added to a drawing, the :py:class:`schemdraw.Segment` objects defining it are accessible in the `segments` attribute list of the Element.
For even more control over customizing individual pieces of an element, the parameters of a Segment can be changed.

.. jupyter-execute::
    :hide-code:
    
    d = schemdraw.Drawing()
    
.. jupyter-execute::

    n = d.add(logic.Nand)
    n.segments[1].color = 'red'
    n.segments[1].zorder = 5  # Put the bubble on top
    d.draw()


Matplotlib axis
---------------

As a final customization option, remember that schemdraw draws everything on a Matplotlib axis.
The figure and axis are stored in the `Drawing.fig` and `Drawing.ax` attributes, respectively.

.. jupyter-execute::

    d = schemdraw.Drawing()
    d.add(elm.Resistor)
    d.draw()
    d.ax.axvline(.5, color='purple', ls='--')
    d.ax.axvline(2.5, color='orange', ls='-', lw=3);
    display(d.fig)

Commit message:

Move matplotlib stuff to a submodule to facilitate adding other drawing backends in the future.

docs/usage/customizing.rst, after:

Customizing Elements
====================

.. jupyter-execute::
    :hide-code:

    %config InlineBackend.figure_format = 'svg'
    import schemdraw
    from schemdraw import elements as elm
    from schemdraw import logic
    from schemdraw.segments import *    


Reusing groups of elements
--------------------------

If a set of circuit elements are to be reused multiple times, they can be grouped into a single element.
Create and populate a drawing, but don't call `draw` on it.
Instead, use the Drawing to create a new :py:class:`ElementDrawing`, which converts the drawing into an element instance
to add to other drawings.
    
.. jupyter-execute::

    d1 = schemdraw.Drawing()
    d1.add(elm.Resistor)
    d1.push()
    d1.add(elm.Capacitor, d='down')
    d1.add(elm.Line, d='left')
    d1.pop()

    d2 = schemdraw.Drawing()   # Add a second drawing
    for i in range(3):
        d2.add(elm.ElementDrawing(d1))   # Add the first drawing to it 3 times
    d2.draw()
    
    
.. _customelements:

Defining custom elements
------------------------

All elements are subclasses of :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.Element` or :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.Element2Term`.
For elements consisting of several other already-defined elements (like a relay), :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.compound.ElementCompound` can be used for easy combining of multiple elements.
Subclasses only need to define the `__init__` method in order to add lines, shapes, and text to the new element, all of which are defined using `Segment` classes. New Segments should be appended to the `Element.segments` attribute list.

Coordinates are all defined in element cooridnates, where the element begins
at [0, 0] and is drawn from left to right. The drawing engine will then rotate
and translate the element to its final position. A standard resistor is
1 drawing unit long, and with default lead extension will become 3 units long.


.. autoclass:: schemdraw.segments.Segment

.. autoclass:: schemdraw.segments.SegmentPoly

.. autoclass:: schemdraw.segments.SegmentCircle

.. autoclass:: schemdraw.segments.SegmentArc

.. autoclass:: schemdraw.segments.SegmentArrow

.. autoclass:: schemdraw.segments.SegmentText



The `Element.__init__` method takes arbitrary keyword arguments than can help define the circuit element to draw.
Keyword arguments passed to the Segment instances will override the drawing defaults or kwargs passed in to the `Element.__init__`.

In addition to the list of Segments, named anchors and other parameters should be specified in the `setup` function. 
Anchors should be added to the `Element.anchors` dictionary as name: [x, y] pairs.

The Element instance maintains its own parameters dictionary in `Element.params` that override the default drawing parameters.
Parameters are resolved by a ChainMap of user arguments to the `Element` instance, the `Element.params` attribute, then the `schemdraw.Drawing` parameters.
A common use of setting `Element.params` in the setup function is to change the default position of text labels, for example Transistor elements apply labels on the right side of the element by default, so they add to the setup:

.. code-block::

    self.params['lblloc'] = 'rgt'

The user can still override this label position by creating, for example, `Transistor(lblloc='top')`.


As an example, here's the definition of our favorite element, the resistor:

.. code-block:: python

    class Resistor(Element2Term):
        def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):
            super().__init__(*args, **kwargs)
            self.segments.append(Segment([[0, 0], [0.5*reswidth, resheight],
                                          [1.5*reswidth, -resheight], [2.5*reswidth, resheight],
                                          [3.5*reswidth, -resheight], [4.5*reswidth, resheight],
                                          [5.5*reswidth, -resheight], [6*reswidth, 0]]))


The resistor is made of just one path.
`reswidth` and `resheight` are constants that define the height and width of the resistor (and are referenced by several other elements too).
Browse the source code in the `Schemdraw.elements` module to see the definitions of the other built-in elements.


Flux Capacitor Example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For an example, let's make a flux capacitor circuit element.

Since everyone knows a flux-capacitor has three branches, we should subclass the standard :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.Element` class instead of :py:class:`schemdraw.elements.Element2Term`.
Start by importing the Segments and define the class name and `__init__` function:

.. code-block:: python

    from schemdraw.segments import *

    class FluxCapacitor(Element):
        def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):

We want a dot in the center of our flux capacitor, so start by adding a `SegmentCircle`. The `fclen` and `radius` variables could be pulled from kwargs for the user to adjust, if desired.

.. code-block:: python

            fclen = 0.5
            radius = 0.075
            self.segments.append(SegmentCircle([0, 0], radius))

Next, add the paths as Segment instances, which are drawn as lines. The flux capacitor will have three paths, all extending from the center dot:

.. code-block:: python

            self.segments.append(Segment([[0, 0], [0, -fclen*1.41]]))
            self.segments.append(Segment([[0, 0], [fclen, fclen]]))
            self.segments.append(Segment([[0, 0], [-fclen, fclen]]))
        
        
And at the end of each path is an open circle. Append three more `SegmentCircle` instances.
By specifying `fill=None` the SegmentCircle will always remain unfilled regardless of any `fill` arguments provided to `Drawing` or `FluxCapacitor`.

.. code-block:: python

            self.segments.append(SegmentCircle([0, -fclen*1.41], 0.2, fill=None))
            self.segments.append(SegmentCircle([fclen, fclen], 0.2, fill=None))
            self.segments.append(SegmentCircle([-fclen, fclen], 0.2, fill=None))
    

Finally, we need to define anchor points so that other elements can be connected to the right places.
Here, they're called `p1`, `p2`, and `p3` for lack of better names (what do you call the inputs to a flux capacitor?)
Add these to the `self.anchors` dictionary.

.. code-block:: python

            self.anchors['p1'] = [-fclen, fclen]
            self.anchors['p2'] = [fclen, fclen]
            self.anchors['p3'] = [0, -fclen*1.41]    

Here's the Flux Capacitor class all in one:

.. jupyter-execute::

    class FluxCapacitor(elm.Element):
        def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):
            super().__init__(*args, **kwargs)
            radius = 0.075
            fclen = 0.5
            self.segments.append(SegmentCircle([0, 0], radius))
            self.segments.append(Segment([[0, 0], [0, -fclen*1.41]]))
            self.segments.append(Segment([[0, 0], [fclen, fclen]]))
            self.segments.append(Segment([[0, 0], [-fclen, fclen]]))
            self.segments.append(SegmentCircle([0, -fclen*1.41], 0.2, fill=None))
            self.segments.append(SegmentCircle([fclen, fclen], 0.2, fill=None))
            self.segments.append(SegmentCircle([-fclen, fclen], 0.2, fill=None))
            self.anchors['p1'] = [-fclen, fclen]
            self.anchors['p2'] = [fclen, fclen]
            self.anchors['p3'] = [0, -fclen*1.41]


Try it out:

.. jupyter-execute::

    FluxCapacitor()


Segment objects
---------------

After an element is added to a drawing, the :py:class:`schemdraw.Segment` objects defining it are accessible in the `segments` attribute list of the Element.
For even more control over customizing individual pieces of an element, the parameters of a Segment can be changed.

.. jupyter-execute::
    :hide-code:
    
    d = schemdraw.Drawing()
    
.. jupyter-execute::

    n = d.add(logic.Nand)
    n.segments[1].color = 'red'
    n.segments[1].zorder = 5  # Put the bubble on top
    d.draw()


Matplotlib axis
---------------

As a final customization option, remember that by default schemdraw draws everything on a Matplotlib figure.
A :py:class:`schemdraw.Figure` is returned from the `draw` method, which contains `fig` and `ax` attributes holding the Matplotlib figure.

.. jupyter-execute::

    d = schemdraw.Drawing()
    d.add(elm.Resistor)
    schemfig = d.draw()
    schemfig.ax.axvline(.5, color='purple', ls='--')
    schemfig.ax.axvline(2.5, color='orange', ls='-', lw=3);
    display(schemfig)
